# iRobot® Create® 3 Release G.2.2
[[Click here to download release G.2.2]](https://github.com/iRobotEducation/create3_docs/releases/download/G.2.2/Create3-G.2.2.swu)

## This release is running ROS 2 Galactic with the following interface library versions:

- [irobot_create_msgs - 1.2.4](https://github.com/iRobotEducation/irobot_create_msgs/tree/1.2.4)
- [cyclonedds - 0.8.1](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/tree/0.8.1)
- [Fast-DDS - 2.3.3](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS/tree/2.3.3)

## Release Overview
As with the last release, this one provides the robot's sensors and controls via topics, actions, and services; for more, see [ROS 2 API](../../api/ros2/).
iRobot® Education Bluetooth protocol functionality has been greatly improved in this release; we have released the iRobot Education [Python Web Playground](https://python.irobot.com/) to interact with the robot.
Please be sure your robot's [BLE/USB Toggle](../../hw/adapter/#usbble-toggle) is in the "BLE" position in order to use the robot in this mode.
Note that when the Bluetooth[^1] radio is enabled, the USB-C[^2] port cannot communicate with a downstream device (though it remains powered).

## Changelog (from G.1.1)
### Core Robot
* Webserver
    * Properly handles Unicode characters with SSIDs, hostnames, and Bluetooth names
    * Reboot Robot and Factory Reset are only available in AP mode
    * Added "Identify Robot" when in AP mode to assist setting up multiple robots at once
    * MAC addresses are visible on About page
* User Interface
    * E-Stop and Backup Limit have [new LED patterns](../../hw/face/#while-operating) to disambiguate from other uses of the UI
    * Toggling USB/BLE no longer requires manual application reset from webserver
* Motion Control
    * Improve reporting and recovery after safety limits are triggered

### ROS 2
* [Docking / undocking](../../api/docking/) action improvements and fixes
* Coordinate system fixes
    * `base_link` is now 3D
    * `base_footprint` added as a 2D TF frame
    * `imu_link` has been removed
* Advertise light ring brightness parameter
* Added audio publication and action to make speakers play sound

### iRobot® Education Bluetooth protocol mode
* Fully implement [protocol v1.4](https://github.com/iRobotEducation/root-robot-ble-protocol)
* Add [sound device](https://github.com/iRobotEducation/root-robot-ble-protocol#device-5---sound)
* Add sound on connection and disconnection
* Advertising rate increased to 10 Hz
* Changing robot name when connected is now reflected in advertisement
* Pressing the power button stops all actuators
* Connection improvements on iOS and Android
* Many stability improvements

## Known issues
### Core Robot
* Robot may require multiple connection attempts when changing Wi-Fi networks
* Robot will restart application when its connectivity changes, including connection changes with Wi-Fi or the USB interface, or when it receives a new DHCP lease. This is helpful for autoconfiguration with DDSes but can be disruptive.
* Robot prefers time sync from Wi-Fi over its USB interface

### ROS 2
* When using CycloneDDS, invoking ROS 2[^3] actions causes a memory leak on the robot. When the robot runs out of memory, it will automatically restart the application. Follow [this issue](https://github.com/ros2/rmw_cyclonedds/issues/388) for more information.

### iRobot® Education Bluetooth protocol mode
* Robot does not recognize disconnection for thirty seconds.
* Changing Bluetooth name in the webserver does not modify advertisement name until application is restarted

[^1]: The Bluetooth® word mark and logos are registered trademarks owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by iRobot is under license.
[^2]: USB-C® is a trademark of USB Implementers Forum.
[^3]: ROS 2 is governed by Open Robotics.
[^4]: Python 3 is governed by the Python Software Foundation.
[^5]: All other trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.