# iRobot速 Create速 3 Release H.2.5
[[Click here to download release H.2.5]](https://github.com/iRobotEducation/create3_docs/releases/download/H.2.5/Create3-H.2.5.swu)

!!! warning
    When using Fast-DDS, startup times are about 30s longer than in our Galactic release.

## This release is running ROS 2 Humble with the following interface library versions:

- [irobot_create_msgs - 2.1.0](https://github.com/iRobotEducation/irobot_create_msgs/tree/2.1.0)
- [cyclonedds - 0.10.3](https://github.com/eclipse-cyclonedds/cyclonedds/tree/0.10.3)
- [Fast-DDS - 2.6.4](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS/tree/2.6.4)

## Release Overview
For ROS 2[^1] users, this is a bugfix release.
For iRobot速 Education Bluetooth[^2] users, there are no changes.
See below for details.

## Changelog (from H.2.4)
### Core Robot
* Overall
    * The robot uses less RAM when idle in this release than in previous releases.
* Webserver
    * Add hidden [beta feature](../../webserver/wpa-supp-override/) to use a user-supplied wpa_supplicant.conf file. Note that this workflow conflicts with the normal provisioning workflow, so it has not been added to the beta menu, so that it is not accessed by accident.

### ROS 2
* Library Versions
    * Update Cyclone DDS from 0.9.0 to 0.10.3
* Parameters
    * Add ROS 2 parameter `wheels_stop_threshold_sec` to the `/motion_control` node. This parameter controls the amount of time that the robot will keep executing the last provided velocity command (on the `/cmd_vel` topic) before considering it stale and stopping the wheels. Default value is 0.5 seconds.
    * Add the following ROS 2 parameters to the `/robot_state` node to control (and disable) unnecessary ROS 2 publications to improve robot performance:
        * `publish_hazard_msgs`: default `true`. If set to false, the robot will not publish the `/hazard_detection` topic. Disabling this can noticeably reduce the CPU and RAM usage of the robot.
        * `hazards_pub_fixed_period_ms`: default `-1`. This controls whether the robot should publish hazard information even if the hazards are not changing. Set it to `-1` to disable fixed period hazard publications and have hazards be published only when they change. This parameter will be ignored if `publish_hazard_msgs` is set to `false`.
        * `raw_kinematics_min_pub_period_ms`: default `25`. This controls the minimum period at which the robot should publish raw kinematics information. If set to `-1`, it will disable raw kinematics publications. This can noticeably reduce the CPU and RAM usage of the robot. A value of `1` indicates that raw data should be published as soon as they are available. Values higher than `1` will throttle publications and will give some CPU improvement, but won't help RAM usage.
        The following topics are affected by this parameter: `/imu`, `/mouse`, `/wheel_status`, `/wheel_ticks`,  `/wheel_vels`.
        If you are not interested in subscribing to these topics, it's recommended to set this parameter's value to `-1`.
        * `publish_odom_tfs`: default `true`. If set to false, the robot will not publish odometry information in the `/tf` topic. This can reduce the CPU and RAM usage of the robot if not needed. Note: this parameter is independent from `raw_kinematics_min_pub_period_ms`
    
        As a summary, the best performance can be obtained via
        ```
        robot_state:
          ros__parameters:
            publish_hazard_msgs: false
            publish_odom_tfs: false
            raw_kinematics_min_pub_period_ms: -1
        ```

        Note that `publish_odom_tfs: true` is required to interact with the navigation stack.
    
        This new version changes the default timing of some ROS 2 topics to improve the CPU performance.
        To restore the previous behavior users can use the following configuration

        ```
        robot_state:
          ros__parameters:
            hazards_pub_fixed_period_ms: 16
            raw_kinematics_min_pub_period_ms: 1
        ```


[^1]: ROS 2 is governed by Open Robotics.
[^2]: The Bluetooth速 word mark and logos are registered trademarks owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of such marks by iRobot is under license.
[^3]: All other trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
